docs(components): update documentation on components (#1583)
AmadeusITGroup/otter: docs/configuration/CONFIGURATION_SUPPORTED_EXTRACTOR.md

> To extract the configuration metadata from an application/library the _component extractor_ will be used. It extracts the list of all the config interfaces defined in a library or application. The output is a json file `component.config.metadata.json` containing an array of all the components configurations (app configs, pages, components).

Reviewer: To extract the configuration metadata from an application/library**,** the _component extractor_ will be used (?)

Author: I don't think we should add a comma here 
@sdo-1A what do you think about it ?

Reviewer 2: Here there should be a comma yes: To extract the configuration metadata from an application/library, the _component extractor_ will be used.

If we don't want a comma it would be reworded like this: The _component extractor_ will be used to extract the configuration metadata from an application/library.

Reviewer: Also, the component extractor should be bold, not italic

It will also generate the component classes and types metadata from an Otter library/application, outputting them in a json file `component.class.metadata.json`.

## How to use it

> The Component Extractor is accessible via a NgCLI builder: `@o3r/components:extractor`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Component Extractor is accessible via this NgCLI builder: `@o3r/components:extractor`.
```

First thing to do is to define your given filenames for the configuration in the _package.json_ of the library/app where you run the extractor.

> When running in a library it will use this configuration as the names for the metadata files.

Reviewer: which names are we talking about? The input or output? Names and filenames is a bit generic

When running the extractor in an application, it will search for these filenames in each node_module (package.json file) of each library,

> in order to concat the metadata from the file with other libraries metadata and app metadata.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in order to concat the file's metadata with the metadata of other libraries and the application's metadata.
```

In the package.json of the library
```json
"cmsMetadata": {
  "componentFilePath": "./component.class.metadata.json",
  "configurationFilePath": "./component.config.metadata.json",
}
```

For an up-to-date documentation, run `ng help @o3r/components:extractor`

> * If the _component extractor_ is run on an application which is using components from an Otter library, the _libraries_ option can be specified to concat classes/configuration files generated for application with ones from specified _libraries_. The extractor will search a _'component.config.metadata.json'_ and a _'component.class.metadata.json'_ file in the node_modules package of each defined library (the name of the files to search will be read from the _cmsMetadata_ property in _package.json_ file defined for each library).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If the _component extractor_ is run on an application which is using components from an Otter library, the _libraries_ option can be specified to concat classes/configuration files generated for the application with ones from specified _libraries_. The extractor will search for a _'component.config.metadata.json'_ and a _'component.class.metadata.json'_ file in the node_modules package of each defined library (the name of the files to search for will be read from the _cmsMetadata_ property in the _package.json_ file defined for each library).
```

> * Here is an example of angular.json:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Here is an example of an angular.json file:
```

> * If the _component extractor_ is run on an application which is using components from an Otter library, the _libraries_ option can be specified to concat classes/configuration files generated for the application with ones from specified _libraries_. The extractor will search for a _'component.config.metadata.json'_ and a _'component.class.metadata.json'_ file in the node_modules package of each defined library (the name of the files to search for will be read from the _cmsMetadata_ property in the _package.json_ file defined for each library).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the **component extractor** is run on an application with components from an Otter library, the ``libraries`` option can be used to concatenate the metadata files generated for the application with the ones from the specified libraries. The extractor will search for the component configuratio and style metadata files in the node_modules package of each configured library.
The name of the metadata files to search for is defined for each library in the ``cmsMetadata`` property defined in their respective ``package.json`` file.
```

> To extract the configuration metadata from an application/library the _component extractor_ will be used. It extracts the list of all the config interfaces defined in a library or application. The output is a json file `component.config.metadata.json` containing an array of all the components configurations (app configs, pages, components).

Reviewer: component extractor should not be italic but bold

It will also generate the component classes and types metadata from an Otter library/application, outputting them in a json file `component.class.metadata.json`.

## How to use it

The Component Extractor is accessible via this NgCLI builder: `@o3r/components:extractor`.

First thing to do is to define your given filenames for the configuration in the _package.json_ of the library/app where you run the extractor.
When running in a library it will use this configuration as the names for the metadata files.

> When running the extractor in an application, it will search for these filenames in each node_module (package.json file) of each library,

Reviewer: @sdo I would remove this comma, what do you think?

> in order to concat the file's metadata with the metadata of other libraries and the application's metadata.

Reviewer 3: The final metadata file generated for an application will be the concatenation of the ones provided by the library used (if available) and the one extracted from the application itself.

In the package.json of the library
```json
"cmsMetadata": {
  "componentFilePath": "./component.class.metadata.json",

>   "configurationFilePath": "./component.config.metadata.json",

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  "configurationFilePath": "./component.config.metadata.json"
```

}
```

For an up-to-date documentation, run `ng help @o3r/components:extractor`

> * If the **component extractor** is run on an application with components from an Otter library, the ``libraries`` option can be used to concatenate the metadata files generated for the application with the ones from the specified libraries. The extractor will search for the component configuratio and style metadata files in the node_modules package of each configured library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the __component extractor__ is run on an application with components from an Otter library, the ``libraries`` option can be used to concatenate the metadata files generated for the application with the ones from the specified libraries. The extractor will search for the component configuration and style metadata files in the node_modules package of each configured library.
```

      "@your/o3r-components"
    ]
  }
}
```

> __Note:__ This option will not search for the duplicate configurations in libraries.

Reviewer: What does it means? It will not put any messages or check if there are duplicates between the libraries?

The __strict mode__ option should be used for production builds, it will throw an error if something not supported by the
CMS is found in the config. You can set it to `false` to allow the generation of metadata including the unknown types to
ease issues fixing, and with the errors logged as warnings.

Here is an example on a library:
```json
"extract-components": {
  "builder": "@o3r/components:extractor",
  "options": {
    "tsConfig": "modules/@scope/area/components/tsconfig.metadata.json",
    "configOutputFile": "modules/@scope/area/components/dist/component.config.metadata.json",
    "componentOutputFile": "modules/@scope/area/components/dist/component.class.metadata.json",
    "strictMode": true
  }
}
```

In case you have a library in a mono repository, it's important to specify both configOutputFile and componentOutputFile. By default, if it is not specified, it will be generated at the root of the project.

> For the tsconfig, you should include only the files that you want to parse, i.e. components and config. You can

Author: That's one of the option of the extractor 
```suggestion
For the `tsconfig`, you should include only the files that you want to parse, i.e. components and config. You can
```
maybe like this it's better ?

      "@your/o3r-components"
    ]
  }
}
```

> __Note:__ This options will not search for the duplicate configurations in libraries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
__Note:__ These options will not search for the duplicate configurations in libraries.
```

Author: ```suggestion
__Note:__ This option will not search for the duplicate configurations in libraries.
```

      "@your/o3r-components"
    ]
  }
}
```

__Note:__ This option will not search for the duplicate configurations in libraries.

The __strict mode__ option should be used for production builds, it will throw an error if something not supported by the

> CMS is found in the config. You can set it to `false` to allow the generation of metadata including the unknown types to

Reviewer 3: if an issue (error + inconstancy)  is found in the config. "supported by the CMS" do not mean much in this context I think

ease issues fixing, and with the errors logged as warnings.

Here is an example on a library:
```json
"extract-components": {
  "builder": "@o3r/components:extractor",
  "options": {
    "tsConfig": "modules/@scope/area/components/tsconfig.metadata.json",
    "configOutputFile": "modules/@scope/area/components/dist/component.config.metadata.json",
    "componentOutputFile": "modules/@scope/area/components/dist/component.class.metadata.json",
    "strictMode": true
  }
}
```

> In case you have a library in a mono repository, it's important to specify both configOutputFile and componentOutputFile. By default, if it is not specified, it will be generated at the root of the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case you have a library in a mono repository, it's important to specify both ``configOutputFile`` and ``componentOutputFile``. By default, if it is not specified, it will be generated at the root of the project.
```

> In case you have a library in a mono repository, it's important to specify both configOutputFile and componentOutputFile. By default, if it is not specified, it will be generated at the root of the project.

Reviewer 3: It will prevent the files generated for the library to conflict with the ones generated for the application

For the tsconfig, you should include only the files that you want to parse, i.e. components and config. You can
extend your tsconfig, and just override the fields that you need.

Example of a tsconfig :

```json
{
  "extends": "./tsconfig",
  "rootDir": ".",
  "include": [
    "src/**/*.component.ts",
    "src/**/*.config.ts"

>   ],

Reviewer 3: In the component file example maybe you should mention the flavor your did with angular signals as an alternative now

>   "exclude": [

Reviewer: line 81: not sure what we means with the configuration service and store and if this is so convincing as such.

Reviewer: We should either remove it or explain why we give this guideline

Reviewer: line 111  Missing text, the introduction of Nested Configuration seems to come out of nowhere. There is probably a whole paragraph missing here.

> cms is found in the config. You can set it to `false` to allow the generation of metadata including the unknown types to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CMS is found in the config. You can set it to `false` to allow the generation of metadata including the unknown types to
```

ease issues fixing, and with the errors logged as warnings.

Here is an example on a library:
```json
"extract-components": {
  "builder": "@o3r/components:extractor",
  "options": {
    "tsConfig": "modules/@scope/area/components/tsconfig.metadata.json",
    "configOutputFile": "modules/@scope/area/components/dist/component.config.metadata.json",
    "componentOutputFile": "modules/@scope/area/components/dist/component.class.metadata.json",
    "strictMode": true
  }
}
```

> In case you have a lib in a mono repository, it's important to specify both configOutputFile and componentOutputFile, by

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In case you have a library in a mono repository, it's important to specify both configOutputFile and componentOutputFile. By default, if it is not specified, it will be generated at the root of the project.
```

> default if not specified, it will be generated at the root of the project.

Author: ```suggestion
```

};
```

> [!WARNING]
> Default config needs to be put AFTER the interface declaration

> > and contain no variable references.

Reviewer: Can you give an example on what not to do?

Reviewer: I just understood you meant the placement in the file.
Maybe, you can replace put with written to make it more obvious

}
```

> If you use any non supported tags in your tsdocs, it will be ignored by the extractor. For example, in the following example, the `unsupportedTag` will not be part of the extracted metadata.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you use any non supported tags in your tsdocs, they will be ignored by the extractor. For example, in the following example, the `unsupportedTag` will not be part of the extracted metadata.
```
